<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Appendix 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h2 id="appendix4" class="chapter-title">
        <span class="chapter-number">Appendix 4: </span>
        The phrase "pierced my hands and feet" in Psalm 22:16
    </h2>
    <p class="subtitle" style="font-size: 0.9em; text-align: center;">(or Psalm 22:17 in Hebrew numbering)</p>

    <p>This is a mistranslation that has been heavily debated and intentionally altered to fit Christian theology.</p>

    <h3>What the Original Hebrew Actually Says</h3>
    <p>In the Masoretic Text (MT), the original Hebrew phrase is:</p>
    <p class="hebrew-text">"כָּאֲרִי יָדַי וְרַגְלָי"</p>
    <p class="transliteration">"Ka'ari yadai v'raglai"</p>

    <p>Word-for-word:</p>
    <ul>
        <li><strong>Ka'ari</strong> (כָּאֲרִי) → "Like a lion"</li>
        <li><strong>Yadai</strong> (יָדַי) → "My hands"</li>
        <li><strong>V'raglai</strong> (וְרַגְלָי) → "And my feet"</li>
    </ul>

    <p>So, the correct translation should be:</p>
    <p class="emphasis">"Like a lion, my hands and my feet."</p>

    <h3>How Did It Get Changed to "Pierced"?</h3>
    <h4>The Christian Alteration</h4>
    <p>Many English Bibles, especially those translated from the Septuagint (LXX) (a Greek translation of the Old Testament made before Jesus), replace "like a lion" with the word "pierced."</p>
    <p>The Septuagint translates it as "ωρυξαν" (oruxan), meaning "they have dug" or "they have pierced."</p>
    <p>This was not in the original Hebrew text—it appears to be a scribal corruption or an intentional change to make the passage resemble crucifixion.</p>

    <h3>The Masoretic Text vs. The Dead Sea Scrolls</h3>
    <p>The oldest surviving Hebrew manuscripts, including the Dead Sea Scrolls, preserve "ka'ari" (like a lion) rather than "pierced."</p>
    <p>The Masoretic Text, the authoritative Hebrew version for Jews today, also confirms "like a lion."</p>

    <h3>Lions in Hebrew Poetry</h3>
    <p>The phrase "like a lion, my hands and feet" makes perfect sense in Hebrew poetic structure.</p>
    <p>Lions are known to attack and tear apart limbs. The verse likely describes suffering, not a crucifixion prophecy.</p>

    <h3>What This Means for Christian Claims</h3>
    <p>The "pierced my hands and feet" translation is a later Christian manipulation.</p>
    <p>The original Jewish understanding has always been:</p>
    <p class="emphasis">"Like a lion at my hands and feet" → A metaphor for enemies surrounding and attacking the speaker (David).</p>
    <p>There is zero connection to Roman crucifixion.</p>
    <p>Jesus never quoted this verse to describe his suffering.</p>

    <h3>Conclusion</h3>
    <p>The correct translation of Psalm 22:16 is:</p>
    <p class="emphasis">"Like a lion, my hands and my feet."</p>
    <p>The "pierced" version?</p>
    <p>A theological fabrication designed to force Jesus into a prophecy that never existed.</p>

    <nav class="navigation" style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2em; padding: 1em; border-top: 1px solid #eee;">
        <a href="appendix3.xhtml" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; text-decoration: none; display: inline-block;">← Backward</a>
        <a href="toc.xhtml" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; text-decoration: none; display: inline-block;">Contents</a>
        <a href="bibliography.xhtml" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; text-decoration: none; display: inline-block;">Forward →</a>
    </nav>

</body>
</html>