<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Appendix 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
    <style type="text/css">
        @media print {
            nav.navigation,
            .navigation,
            nav[class="navigation"],
            nav.navigation *,
            .navigation *,
            nav.navigation a,
            .navigation a,
            nav[style*="text-align: center"],
            nav[style*="border-top"],
            a[style*="display: inline-block"],
            a[style*="background: #007acc"],
            a[style*="background-color: #007acc"] {
                display: none !important;
                visibility: hidden !important;
                opacity: 0 !important;
                height: 0 !important;
                width: 0 !important;
                max-height: 0 !important;
                max-width: 0 !important;
                overflow: hidden !important;
                margin: 0 !important;
                padding: 0 !important;
                border: none !important;
                position: absolute !important;
                left: -9999px !important;
                top: -9999px !important;
                clip: rect(0, 0, 0, 0) !important;
            }
        }
    </style>
</head>
<body>
    <h2 id="appendix2" class="chapter-title">
        <span class="chapter-number">Appendix 2: </span>
        Glossary of Key Terms
    </h2>

    <dl class="glossary">
        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">1. Yahweh</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">The personal name of an Elohim who hundreds of years was believed to be God. (Hebrew YHWH, often rendered "the LORD" in English Bibles). In ancient Israel, Yahweh was regarded as the national God of Israel. This name is associated with God's revelations to Moses and the giving of the Law.</dd>
        </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">2. God the Father (Jesus' Father)</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">In Christian belief, the first person of the Trinity, whom Jesus revealed in the New Testament. Jesus often simply says "Father" or "My Father in heaven" when referring to God. The Father, as described by Jesus, is loving, merciful, and the source of all good. All religions have the unintended (or carefully crafted) effect of drawing our attention to a being separate from ourselves. A core theme of Jesus teachings is to break down this separation between himself, the Father and us.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">3. Old Covenant</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">The term for the relationship and agreement God had with Israel as described in the Old Testament, particularly the Law given through Moses. It included the Ten Commandments, and (until recently, many believed) the sacrificial system, and various laws. Under the Old Covenant, blessings were promised for obedience and curses for disobedience (see Deuteronomy 28).</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">4. New Covenant</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">The new relationship and agreement established by Jesus Christ through His life, death, and resurrection (as prophesied in Jeremiah 31:31-34 and instituted at the Last Supper, Luke 22:20). The New Covenant emphasizes grace, forgiveness of sins (traditionally through Jesus' 'sacrifice'), and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, rather than adherence to the Mosaic Law. Under the New Covenant, believers are saved by faith (in the 'sacrifice') and transformed from within, not by works. Jesus placed a greater emphasis on the role of works in our spiritual development, even though, thanks to Paul's use of Old Testament texts, it's very difficult for Christians not to view works as 'nice-to-haves' not 'need-to-haves,' since God somehow views these as 'filthy rags.'</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">5. Sacrificial System</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">The series of religious rituals in the Old Testament that involved offering sacrifices (animals, grain, etc.) to Yahweh. Key purposes of sacrifices were atonement for sin, thanksgiving, and worship. This system was centered around the Tabernacle/Temple and carried out by priests. This is in contrast to Jesus' message that God desires mercy more than sacrifice.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">6. Mercy</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">Compassionate treatment, forgiveness, and kindness shown to someone whom it is within one's power to punish or harm. In a theological sense, God's mercy is His willingness to forgive sinners and withhold supposed 'deserved' judgment. Jesus elevates mercy as a primary attribute of God (e.g., "be merciful as your Father is merciful").</dd>
        </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">7. Grace</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">Unmerited favor or kindness, especially that which God shows toward humanity. Grace is a foundational concept of the New Testament, encapsulating the idea that salvation and blessings are gifts from God, not earned by our performance. "By grace you have been saved through faith…" (Ephesians 2:8). Jesus embodies grace and truth (John 1:17).</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">8. Retributive Justice</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">A concept of justice that focuses on punishment of wrongdoing in proportion to the offense ("an eye for an eye"). Under retributive justice, when someone breaks the law, justice demands that they suffer a penalty or loss equivalent to the harm caused. Many of Yahweh's laws in the Torah reflect retributive justice.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">9. Restorative Justice</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">A concept of justice that focuses on restoring the wrongdoer and the wronged party, healing relationships, and rehabilitation rather than merely punishing. Jesus' approach can be seen as restorative: for example, forgiving sinners and telling them to "go and sin no more," aiming to restore them to a right life rather than exacting a penalty.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">10. Lex Talionis</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">Latin for "law of retaliation." It refers to the principle of "eye for eye, tooth for tooth" justice found in ancient law codes, including the Old Testament (Exodus 21:24). It set limits on retribution (you couldn't take more than what was taken from you). Jesus explicitly countered this principle by teaching non-retaliation and love of enemies.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">11. Marcionism</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">A theological belief system derived from Marcion of Sinope (2nd century AD). Marcionism posited that the God of the Old Testament (Yahweh) is a different, inferior god than the God of the New Testament revealed by Jesus. Marcion compiled his own canon of Scripture, rejecting the Old Testament entirely. He viewed Yahweh as legalistic and harsh, and the Father of Jesus as loving and merciful. The orthodox Church condemned Marcionism as heresy, affirming that there is only one God and that Jesus' Father is indeed the same God who interacted with Israel (albeit fully revealed in Jesus).</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">12. Gnosticism</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">A broad term for various ancient religious ideas and systems (gnostic sects) that emerged in the early Christian era. Gnosticism typically taught that salvation comes through secret knowledge (gnosis) and often embraced a strong dualism between spirit (good) and matter (evil). Many Gnostics believed the material world was created by a lesser ignorant deity (often equated with Yahweh), not by the ultimate true God. In Gnostic cosmology, the true God is pure spirit and was unknown until revealed by figures like Jesus. While diverse in thought, Gnostic Christians often distinguished the Old Testament God from the New Testament God in ways similar to Marcion, though with more mythological framing (e.g., calling the creator "Demiurge").</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">13. Dualism</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">In theology or philosophy, dualism is the concept that two fundamental, opposed principles exist (often one good, one evil). Within a Christian context, a dualistic theology might posit two divine beings in conflict (as Marcion did with the good God vs. Yahweh). Orthodox Christianity is not dualistic in its view of God (it affirms one sovereign God), but there is a sort of moral dualism in Scripture between God and Satan (good vs. evil). Marcion's dualism was God vs. God – a notion the mainstream church rejected.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">14. Trinity</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">The Christian doctrine that God is one Being in three Persons: Father, Son (Jesus Christ), and Holy Spirit. This is a mystery of the faith that attempts to synthesize the biblical data that affirms one God (monotheism) with the divinity of Christ and the Holy Spirit. According to Trinitarian doctrine, Yahweh of the Old Testament is the Triune God, just not fully revealed as Trinity at that time. Therefore, the Father that Jesus speaks of is the same "I AM" that spoke to Moses, but now revealed in a new light. Critics or those exploring alternative views might question how the Trinity accounts for the differing portrayals of God's character across the testaments.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">15. Deconstruction (of faith)</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">In a religious context, deconstruction refers to the process of critically examining and questioning one's beliefs, often leading to the rejection of some previously held doctrines or interpretations. For many Christians, deconstruction might involve re-evaluating teachings from their church or scripture that don't seem to align with what they understand of God or morality. It can be a response to encountering contradictions, historical issues, or personal experiences that challenge one's inherited theology. The goal for many is not to destroy faith altogether, but to shed what is false and arrive at a more authentic, coherent faith. In this report, deconstruction is addressed as a journey that readers might be on, especially in grappling with the troubling aspects of the Bible (like Yahweh's violence).</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">16. Heresy</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">A belief or doctrine that deviates significantly from established orthodox teaching, especially one that has been officially condemned by the church. In church history, heresies were identified as teachings that threatened the core understanding of the Christian faith (e.g., denying the divinity of Christ, or, in Marcion's case, denying the unity of God and the goodness of creation). Labeling something heresy often meant it was outside the bounds of acceptable Christian belief. Marcionism was labeled a heresy. It's worth noting that sometimes what is considered heresy in one era might be reconsidered in another context (though the main ancient heresies remain outside orthodox Christianity to this day). This report ventures into territory that traditionalists might label heretical (like questioning Yahweh), but it does so in pursuit of truth as revealed in Jesus.</dd>
    </div>

        <div style="background-color: #f8f9fa; padding: 2em; margin: 2em 0; border-radius: 10px; border-left: 4px solid #2c5282; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);">
            <dt style="background-color: #e3f2fd; padding: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #bbdefb; font-weight: bold; color: #1565c0; font-size: 1.1em;">17. Atonement</dt>
            <dd style="line-height: 1.6; color: #2d3748; margin: 0; padding-left: 0;">The mechanism by which reconciliation between God and humanity is accomplished. In the Old Testament, atonement was tied to sacrifices (the blood of animals symbolically covering sins). In Christian theology, atonement is accomplished by Jesus Christ – His death and resurrection restore the relationship between God and humanity, dealing with the problem of sin. Different theories of atonement exist (ransom, substitution, moral influence, etc.), but all center on Jesus as the solution to human sinfulness. This report touches on atonement in contrasting the sacrificial system (Old Covenant atonement) with Jesus' self-sacrifice (New Covenant atonement) and questions the nature of God requiring sacrifice at all.</dd>
        </div>
    </dl>
    
    <nav class="navigation" style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2em; padding: 1em; border-top: 1px solid #eee;">
        <a href="appendix1.xhtml" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; text-decoration: none; display: inline-block;">← Backward</a>
        <a href="toc.xhtml" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; text-decoration: none; display: inline-block;">Contents</a>
        <a href="appendix3.xhtml" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; text-decoration: none; display: inline-block;">Forward →</a>
    </nav>

</body>
</html>
