<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Bibliography</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="chapter-title">Bibliography</h2>
<ol>
<li>The Holy Bible, Names of God Bible (NOG). Baker Publishing Group, 2011.</li>
<li>BibleGateway.com and BibleHub.com</li>
<li>Palekas, Rev. Joe. Making Sense of Psalm 137. The Washington Institute, 2021.</li>
<li>Bouma, Jeremy. Know the Heretics. HarperCollins, 2014.</li>
<li>Craig, William Lane. Question: Jesus and the God of the Old Testament. Biola University, 2017.</li>
<li>Dawkins, Richard. The God Delusion. Bantam Books, 2006.</li>
<li>Paine, Thomas. The Age of Reason, 1794-1807.</li>
<li>Goodreads.com - Quotes</li>
<li>OpenBible.info</li>
<li>StackExchange - Biblical Hermeneutics and Christianity sections</li>
<li>Wikipedia - Marcionism</li>
<li>Early Christian Writings - Tertullian Against Marcion</li>
<li>Holy Bible, New International Version (NIV)</li>
<li>Enns, Peter. The Bible Tells Me So. HarperOne, 2014.</li>
<li>Boyd, Gregory. Cross Vision. Fortress Press, 2017.</li>
<li>The Gospel Coalition</li>
<li>Bart D. Ehrman - Misquoting Jesus</li>
<li>Elaine Pagels - The Gnostic Gospels</li>
<li>Robert Eisenman - James the Brother of Jesus</li>
<li>Richard Elliott Friedman - Who Wrote the Bible</li>
<li>Frank Cross and John Allegro - Dead Sea Scroll scholarship</li>
<li>Josephus - The Jewish War</li>
<li>Raymond E. Brown, Marcus Borg - Pseudepigrapha scholarship</li>
<li>Ross K Nicholls - The Moses Scroll, Horeb Press, 2021</li>
<li>Dead Sea Scrolls - Qumran</li>
<li>Church Councils - Nicaea, Chalcedon</li>
        </ol>
</body>
</html> 