<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Chapter 7: Earliest Writings: How Paul Hijacked the Legacy of Jesus</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
</head>
<body>
    <div class="chapter-header">
        <div class="chapter-number">CHAPTER 7</div>
        <h1 class="chapter-title">Earliest Writings: How Paul Hijacked the Legacy of Jesus</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="chapter-opening-quote">
        <p class="quote-text"><i>"In vain do they worship Me, teaching <b>human precepts as doctrines</b>."</i></p>
        <p class="quote-attribution">—Jesus (Mark 7:7)</p>
    </div>

    <p>Let's rip the veil off. Christianity as we know it wasn't built on Jesus' words—it was built on <b>Paul's</b>. As we saw in Part 2, the man who <i>never met Jesus in the flesh</i>. The man whose letters <b>predate the Gospels</b> by decades. The man who claimed a cosmic vision on a desert road and from it, <b>rewrote the faith</b> from the ground up.</p>

    <p>In this chapter we'll explore how textual alterations, even forgeries, propped up the <b>false portrayal</b> of Jesus' teachings and the Father's heart.</p>

    <p>Imagine a Christianity without Paul. Just Jesus. <i>Pure. Subversive. Merciful.</i> Earth-shaking in its simplicity. Now, slam back into reality. What you call Christianity is a <b>Frankenstein religion</b>—stitched together by Paul's pen, (together with those using his name to bolster their letters) clothed in temple sacrifice, fed by fear, and wielded by power-hungry churchmen who preferred <i>rules over relationship</i>.</p>

    <p>Paul's gospel? It wasn't Jesus' gospel. It was a <b>blood-soaked abstraction</b>:</p>

    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"God presented Christ as a <b>sacrifice of atonement</b>, through the shedding of his blood—to be received by faith."</i> (Romans 3:25)</p>
    </div>

    <p>Paul, in one sweeping theological maneuver, turned Jesus into the very thing Jesus opposed—a <b>sacrificial offering</b> in a system Jesus came to dismantle.</p>

    <p>Jesus didn't need a cross to forgive. He forgave <b>freely</b>. <i>Unasked. On the spot. No rituals. No intermediaries. No transaction.</i> From the cross, He cried:</p>

    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Father, <b>forgive them</b>, for they don't know what they're doing."</i> (Luke 23:34)</p>
    </div>

    <p>And Paul? Paul told us forgiveness only flows when you <i>believe in blood</i>.</p>

    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"<b>Without the shedding of blood</b>, there is no forgiveness."</i> (Hebrews 9:22 —attributed to Paul's camp)</p>
    </div>

    <p><b>Really?</b> Because Jesus forgave a paralyzed man before a single drop was spilled. (Mark 2:5)</p>

    <p>Paul <b>hijacked</b> Jesus' story and twisted it into a theological death cult. And it worked. Paul's letters exploded across the early church—<i>portable, quotable, pre-packaged theology</i>. Meanwhile, the Gospels lagged behind, decades later, inevitably tainted by Paul's influence. By the time Jesus' life was written down, Paul's atonement lens had already <b>stained the canvas</b>.</p>

    <p>Jesus taught <i>love your enemies</i>. Paul <b>institutionalized punishment</b>.</p>
    <p>Jesus <i>washed feet</i>. Paul <b>erected hierarchies</b>.</p>
    <p>Jesus <i>ate with outcasts</i>. Paul gave us <b>purity codes and power pyramids</b>.</p>

    <p>And the most bitter pill? Paul <b>barely quoted Jesus</b>. How do you follow a man and never mention what he said? Because Paul didn't follow the living Jesus. He followed a <i>light in the sky</i> that said, "I'm Jesus." That's who shaped your faith.</p>

    <p>Paul's letters were <b>first on the scene</b>. They defined the playing field before the Gospels were even in circulation. Early believers had Paul, not Matthew. They had Romans, not the Sermon on the Mount. They were discipled by a mystic with no time for parables, who replaced Jesus' ethics with <i>cosmic courtroom drama</i>. I wonder if Paul would have changed what he'd written if he'd read the gospels first? If Paul had read, for example, the story in John's gospel of Jesus appearing to the disciples behind closed doors and asking Thomas to feel his wounds to prove he was resurrected and <b>wasn't a spirit without a body</b>. Paul had clearly states that Jesus was raised a (life-giving) Spirit, just like what will happen to us!</p>

    <p>Then came the <b>forgeries</b>. Yes, forgeries. The Pastoral Epistles—1 and 2 Timothy, Titus—are <b>not Paul</b>. Almost all scholars agree. These were written decades after his death by men who invoked his name to prop up patriarchy, silence women, and consolidate power:</p>

    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"I do not permit a woman to teach or to assume authority over a man; she must be <b>quiet</b>."</i> (1 Timothy 2:12)</p>
    </div>

    <p>Jesus had women teaching, following, anointing. Paul's ghost <b>locked them out</b> of the pulpit. And Christians cheered.</p>

    <p>Paul claimed grace but built a cage. <i>"Grace,"</i> he said, <i>"not works."</i> But then he demanded loyalty to the church, obedience to leaders, belief in blood, submission to doctrine. That's not grace. That's <b>spiritual blackmail</b> with a heavenly smile.</p>

    <p>Even his doctrine of original sin, or <i>inherited sin</i>—</p>

    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive."</i> (1 Corinthians 15:22)</p>
    </div>

    <p>—is a <b>theological trap</b>. You're born guilty. Born damned. A baby deserves hell unless the church steps in. What <i>monstrous god</i> is this? It's <b>not</b> Jesus' Father. Jesus <i>blessed</i> children. He didn't damn them by default.</p>

    <p>Let's be honest: Paul's gospel doesn't just obscure Jesus. It <b>buries Him</b>.</p>
    <p>It replaces:</p>
    <ul>
        <li><i>Love</i> with <b>legalism</b></li>
        <li><i>Mercy</i> with <b>merit badges</b></li>
        <li><i>Grace</i> with <b>guilt</b></li>
        <li><i>Relationship</i> with <b>ritual</b></li>
    </ul>

    <p>Paul's theology was the <b>perfect tool for empire</b>. Clean. Male-dominated. Blood-obsessed. <i>Easy to package, hard to question</i>. And when the councils met, when the creeds were carved, guess whose voice thundered through them? <b>Paul's</b>. Not Jesus'.</p>

    <p>So here's the scandal:</p>
    <p>The religion of Jesus was <b>strangled in its cradle</b> by a man who never met Him.</p>
    <p>The words of the Rabbi were <b>overpowered</b> by the letters of the self-proclaimed 'apostle.' [<i>"Let's insert the title before your name every time, so there's no confusion you're an apostle."</i> But he never met the 'apostle' criteria given in Acts 1: <i>"being a disciple of Jesus from his baptism until his ascension, and an eyewitness of his resurrection."</i>]</p>

    <p>And now, two thousand years later, you sit in churches <b>quoting Paul to explain Jesus</b>. Isn't that backwards?</p>

    <p>Jesus was God's <b>final word</b>. Paul was commentary—and not always a good one. So let's stop pretending Paul's contradictions don't matter. Let's stop acting like we have to harmonize the irreconcilable.</p>

    <p>Jesus taught: <i>forgive without payment</i>. Paul taught: <b>no forgiveness without blood</b>.</p>
    <p>Jesus taught: <i>love enemies</i>. Paul taught: <b>hand them over to Satan</b>. (1 Corinthians 5:5)</p>
    <p>Jesus warned: <i>beware false prophets</i>. And Paul, conveniently, declared himself the <b>last and greatest apostle</b>. (1 Corinthians 15:8-9)</p>

    <p>Coincidence? Or <b>power play</b>?</p>

    <p>It's time to <b>reclaim Jesus</b> from Paul.</p>
    <p>No more filters. No more middlemen. No more secondhand theology dressed up as divine truth. The man who told you women can't speak, slaves must submit, and blood buys forgiveness is <b>not</b> the same man who knelt in the dirt and healed lepers.</p>

    <p>The real Jesus is waiting. He's buried under Pauline pulpits and blood-soaked dogma. <b>Dig Him up. Dust Him off.</b> Listen to His voice—<i>clear, direct, uncompromising</i>:</p>
    <p><b>Love your enemies. Forgive freely. Show mercy, always.</b></p>

    <p>That's the Jesus who liberates humanity. Not the one Paul invented. Not the god of substitutionary slaughter. But the one who said, <i>"Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful."</i> (Luke 6:36)</p>

    <p><b>Re-center everything around that.</b></p>
    <p>And let the rest burn.</p>
    
    <nav class="navigation" style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2em; padding: 1em; border-top: 1px solid #eee;">
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('chapter6.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">← Backward</button>
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('toc.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">Contents</button>
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('part3.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">Forward →</button>
    </nav>
    
    <script type="text/javascript">
        function navigateToChapter(href, event) {
            if (event) event.preventDefault();
            window.location.href = href;
        }
    </script>
</body>
</html> 