<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Chapter 3: Jesus' Father—A God of Love, Not Terror</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
</head>
<body>
    <div class="chapter">
        <h1>Chapter 3: Jesus' Father—A God of Love, Not Terror</h1>
        
        <div class="content">
            <div class="chapter-opening-quote">
                <p>"Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful."</p>
                <cite>—Jesus, Luke 6:36</cite>
            </div>

            <p>Jesus doesn't just tweak our theology—He detonates it. He calls God Father. Not a warrior. Not a judge. Not the deity of thunder and fire from Sinai. He doesn't use the distant, terrifying titles of Yahweh's past appearances. He uses Abba—an intimate, childlike word akin to Papa. That's not a minor shift. It's a complete switch in divine identity. Jesus doesn't just tell us what God is like. He embodies Him.</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"No one has ever seen God. The only Son, who is truly God and is closest to the Father, has shown us what God is like." (John 1:18)</p>
            </div>

            <p>No one had seen God — until Jesus. That means Abraham didn't. Moses didn't. Elijah didn't. Who, then, were they speaking to?</p>

            <p>I once heard of an American T-shirt maker in Miami who printed T-shirts for the Spanish market to promote the pope's visit. Instead of "I saw the pope" (el papa), the T-shirts read, "I saw the potato" (la papa). One little error reduced the pope to a vegetable, so to speak. Tragically, this is exactly what has happened on a larger scale to the God of this universe. He has been reduced to a level worse than that of the world's favorite vegetable by a combination of translation errors and malevolent textual forgeries.</p>

            <p>According to Jesus, God is love. A healer, a forgiver, a restorer. Not a destroyer. Not a slaughterer of infants. Not a deity demanding rivers of animal blood to soothe His wrath. If you want to know the true God, look at Jesus. And what do we see?</p>
            
            <p>Not a single act of harm.</p>

            <p>Not once does Jesus kill. Human or animal. Not once does He curse a nation or unleash plagues. He doesn't flood cities. He doesn't send fire from the sky. On one occasion, when His disciples tried to, He stopped them. James and John—the "Sons of Thunder"—wanted Jesus to call down fire on a Samaritan village for rejecting Jesus. Elijah had done it before. Yahweh had done it before (on Sodom and Gomorrah, taking the biblical text at face value, for now). Surely, there was divine precedent.</p>

            <p>But Jesus' response? He rebukes them. This is a strong, forceful reprimand.</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"You don't know what kind of spirit is influencing you." (Luke 9:55)</p>
            </div>

            <p>Think about that.</p>

            <p>They were trying to follow Scripture. They wanted to imitate the Old Testament prophets. They wanted to imitate Yahweh! Yet Jesus says they are listening to the wrong spirit. That should shake us to the core. Jesus regarded the very thought that those who reject him deserve fire, let alone eternal fire, as evil – emanating from the wrong spirit. Imagine telling that to your church leader!</p>

            <p>If Jesus' Father is truly the same as Yahweh, why does He oppose His own recorded actions, or the actions of one of his star prophets?</p>

            <p>If Jesus is God made visible, then Yahweh's genocidal campaigns, child-killing plagues, and obsession with ritual slaughter suddenly look very suspect.</p>

            <p>Fast-forward to Jesus famous Sermon on the Mount. It doesn't just teach morality. It reveals an entirely different God.</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be children of your Father in heaven. For He makes His sun rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust." (Matthew 5:44-45)</p>
            </div>

            <p>Jesus' Father loves everyone. He blesses everyone. He sends rain on everyone. That alone annihilates Yahweh's Old Testament profile. Yahweh didn't love enemies. He drowned them, burned them, starved them, or had His people slaughter them—men, women, children, even livestock. It gets stomach-churningly even worse. On multiple occasions, he starved his own people into next Tuesday so that they would resort to cannibalism! This isn't some metaphor or poetic exaggeration. The Old Testament states it explicitly. Not once. Not twice. But repeatedly. This was no idle threat. It was a punishment Yahweh promised for disobedience. Leviticus 26:27-29 and Deuteronomy 28:53-57 lay it out in chilling detail:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"If in spite of this you do not listen to me and still resist me, I will fiercely resist you. I will discipline you seven times for your sins. You will eat the bodies of your sons and daughters." (Leviticus 26:27-29)</p>
            </div>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"Because of the hardships your enemies will make you suffer during the blockade, you will eat the flesh of your own children, the sons and daughters, whom Yahweh your Elohim has given you." (Deuteronomy 28:53)</p>
            </div>

            <p>This isn't just some ancient hyperbolic language. It happened. Over and over again. Yahweh made sure of it. Centuries later, the prophet Ezekiel confirmed that Yahweh had not forgotten his own bloodthirsty decree:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"Because of all the detestable things that you do, I will do things to you that I have never done before and will never do again. That is why parents will eat their children, and children will eat their parents. I will punish you and scatter whoever is left to the wind." (Ezekiel 5:9-10)</p>
            </div>

            <p>And sure enough, it happened during Nebuchadnezzar's siege of Jerusalem in 587 BC. Starvation gripped the city. The prophecy came to life.</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"The hands of loving mothers cooked their own children. The children were used for food by my people when they were being destroyed by a blockade." (Lamentations 4:10)</p>
            </div>

            <p>The horror doesn't stop there. It had already happened in Samaria during the siege of the ninth century BC:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"Then the king asked her, 'What's the matter?' She answered, 'This woman told me, "Give up your son. Let's eat him today. We'll eat my son tomorrow." So we boiled my son and ate him. The next day I told her, "Give up your son. We'll eat him," but she hid her son.'" (2 Kings 6:28-29)</p>
            </div>

            <p>Still think this is a god of love? Of course, Yahweh broke his Ezekial 5 promise and did it again years later. Fast-forward to AD 70. The Romans, led by Titus, besiege Jerusalem again. The Jewish historian Josephus records the unspeakable:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"She then took the child and killed him, and having roasted him, she ate half of him and kept the rest concealed. When the rebels came in and, smelling the unholy scent, threatened to kill her if she did not produce what she had prepared, she uncovered the remains of her child and said, 'This is my own son, and this is my doing! Eat of this food, for I have eaten of it myself!'" (Jewish War 6.201-213)</p>
            </div>

            <p>And Josephus? He doesn't question why. He knows. Yahweh had promised this would happen. Let that sink in. Yahweh caused this. Not famine. Not human depravity. Yahweh himself. His own words. His own curse. Fulfilled.</p>

            <p>How does this not sound like a monster? A god who demands obedience through starvation, death, and the unthinkable? A god who delights in fulfilling his most gruesome threats? This isn't justice. It's horror. It's evil. Now reading him say He punishes children for their parents' sins up to the fourth generation (Exodus 20:5) sounds mild.</p>

            <p>What does Jesus say?</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"The Father is kind to the ungrateful and wicked. Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful." (Luke 6:35-36)</p>
            </div>

            <p>Merciful to the wicked? Yahweh wasn't even merciful to babies, to his own 'children.' If Yahweh had written the Prodigal Son story, it would have ended with the father killing the rebellious son or demanding some brutal sacrifice before forgiveness. But what does Jesus say?</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"While he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him; he ran to his son, threw his arms around him, and kissed him." (Luke 15:20)</p>
            </div>

            <p>No punishment. No conditions. No demand for blood. Just mercy.</p>

            <p>Yahweh demanded sacrifices for atonement. Jesus tells a story where the Father requires nothing. The son is simply welcomed home. Again and again, Jesus exposes a God whose defining trait is compassion. In the parable of the Lost Sheep, the shepherd leaves the ninety-nine to find the lost one. In the parable of the Unforgiving Servant, the Father forgives an impossible debt with no penalty. This is not Yahweh's economy of justice. It's better.</p>

            <p>The Old Testament demanded blood. Jesus forgave on the spot. "Son, your sins are forgiven." (Mark 2:5) — No sacrifice. No priest. Just forgiveness. A woman caught in adultery deserved stoning, according to Yahweh's Law (Leviticus 20:10). Jesus? "Neither do I condemn you," (John 8:11). Jesus doesn't merely tweak Yahweh's rules. He overrides them. Even His final moments show a radical break:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they are doing." (Luke 23:34)</p>
            </div>

            <p>Jesus forgives his murderers, without sacrifice, repentance, or confession on their part. Yahweh, in contrast, wiped out entire generations for far lesser offenses. Consider Yahweh versus Jesus' Father side by side:</p>

            <table class="comparison-table">
                <thead>
                    <tr>
                        <th colspan="2">Yahweh vs Jesus' Father</th>
                    </tr>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <tr>
                        <td>
                            <div class="section-header">Yahweh</div>
                            <div class="quote">
                                "Show them no mercy. Do not leave alive anything that breathes."
                                <span class="reference">Deuteronomy 7:2</span>
                            </div>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                            <div class="section-header">Jesus' Father</div>
                            <div class="quote">
                                "Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful."
                                <span class="reference">Luke 6:36</span>
                            </div>
                        </td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>
                            <div class="section-header">Yahweh</div>
                            <div class="quote">
                                "Kill both man and woman, infant and nursing baby."
                                <span class="reference">1 Samuel 15:3</span>
                            </div>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                            <div class="section-header">Jesus' Father</div>
                            <div class="quote">
                                "Let the little children come to me… for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these."
                                <span class="reference">Mark 10:14</span>
                            </div>
                        </td>
                    </tr>
                    <tr>
                        <td>
                            <div class="section-header">Yahweh</div>
                            <div class="quote">
                                "Eye for eye, tooth for tooth."
                                <span class="reference">Exodus 21:24</span>
                            </div>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                            <div class="section-header">Jesus' Father</div>
                            <div class="quote">
                                "Do not resist an evil person. Turn the other cheek."
                                <span class="reference">Matthew 5:39</span>
                            </div>
                        </td>
                    </tr>
                </tbody>
            </table>

            <p>One demands violence. The other offers grace. One punishes children for their ancestors' sins. The other blesses the wicked just as He does the righteous. These aren't minor doctrinal tensions. They are polar opposites.</p>

            <p>This is certainly not explained by appealing to different time periods or dispensations. Atrocious behavior in one period is morally acceptable, but if you move the clock forward into another 'dispensation,' the behavior becomes morally repugnant.</p>

            <p>Jesus made an intriguing statement:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"All who came before me were thieves and robbers." (John 10:8)</p>
            </div>

            <p>That's a staggering claim. One way to read this, I would suggest, is that someone stole or distorted the true character of God before Jesus arrived. And He wasn't the only one who noticed. In the 2nd century, a man named Marcion of Sinope argued that Yahweh and Jesus' Father were two completely different gods. He saw the contradictions. He called it out. And the church branded him a heretic.</p>

            <p>But was he wrong?</p>

            <p>Before you answer, take one last look at Jesus' words:</p>

            <div class="callout">
                <p>"If you really knew me, you would know my Father as well… Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father." (John 14:7,9)</p>
            </div>

            <p>If Jesus fully reveals the Father, then anything in the Old Testament that contradicts Him is suspect.</p>

            <p>Which leaves us with only two possibilities: Either Jesus' Father is not Yahweh – implying that Yahweh was impersonating the true God of the Universe. Or Yahweh was the true God of the universe, but his true nature had been deliberately hidden, implying that all the horrible stuff written about him, a large part of the Old Testament, is wrong. Either conclusion changes everything. Let's examine more of Jesus' teachings about his Father.</p>
        </div>
    </div>
</body>
</html> 