<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Chapter 4: I Desire Mercy, Not Sacrifice</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h2 id="chapter4" class="chapter-title">
        <div class="chapter-number">Chapter 4</div>
        "I Desire Mercy, Not Sacrifice"
    </h2>
    
    <div class="chapter-opening-quote">
        <p><i>"The blood of the …[animals]… is carried in bowls by the priests round the altar and poured out at its base; but at the feast of the Passover, the [animals] being so numerous, the blood is poured out in a <b>continuous stream</b>, and flows in such volume that it forms a <b>river</b>, and the priests, standing in it, are immersed to their ankles."</i></p>
        <span class="quote-author">— Josephus, The Jewish War (Book 6, Chapter 9, Section 3)</span>
    </div>
    
    <p>On a mountain many years ago, Jesus began <b>breaking the cycle</b> of divine-sanctioned violence. For centuries, Yahweh's law upheld a brutal, transactional justice system:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth."</i> (Exodus 21:23-24)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>A cold, calculated form of retribution—legalized vengeance. Some argue it was designed to limit revenge (only take an eye for an eye, nothing more), but it still operated on the premise that justice meant inflicting an equal wound. Now Jesus, standing before a crowd well-versed in the Torah, <b>dismantles</b> that thinking in a single sentence. He doesn't tweak it. He doesn't 'reinterpret it to bring out its true meaning.' No. He <i>overrules</i> it.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. If someone slaps you, offer the other cheek."</i></p>
    </div>
    
    <p>This is <b>seismic</b>. The old way demanded retribution. Jesus demands forgiveness.</p>
    
    <p>He continues:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"You have heard that it was said, 'Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' But I tell you, <b>love your enemies</b> and pray for those who persecute you."</i> (Matthew 5:43-44)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>This wasn't a poetic flourish. It was a <b>direct rejection</b> of Yahweh's precedent.</p>
    
    <div style="background-color: #f5f5f5; padding: 1.5em; border-radius: 8px; margin: 2em 0;">
        <h3 style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1.5em; color: #2d3748; font-weight: bold;">Revolutionary Ethical Shifts in Jesus' Teaching</h3>
        <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: row; gap: 1em; flex-wrap: wrap;">
            <div style="flex: 1; background-color: #ffeaea; padding: 1.5em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #f56565;">
                <h4 style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1em; color: #c53030; font-weight: bold;">Old Way</h4>
                <p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1em; font-style: italic; color: #2d3748;">"Eye for eye, tooth for tooth"</p>
                <ul style="list-style-type: disc; padding-left: 1.5em; color: #2d3748;">
                    <li style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;">Retributive justice</li>
                    <li style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;">Legalized vengeance</li>
                    <li style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;">Equal wound for wound</li>
                    <li>Violence as solution</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
            <div style="flex: 1; background-color: #f0fff4; padding: 1.5em; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #68d391;">
                <h4 style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1em; color: #2f855a; font-weight: bold;">Jesus' Teaching</h4>
                <p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 1em; font-style: italic; color: #2d3748;">"Turn the other cheek" and "Love your enemies"</p>
                <ul style="list-style-type: disc; padding-left: 1.5em; color: #2d3748;">
                    <li style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;">Restorative justice</li>
                    <li style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;">Unconditional love</li>
                    <li style="margin-bottom: 0.5em;">Forgiveness over vengeance</li>
                    <li>Peace as solution</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
    
    <p>The Old Testament is a long, bloody parade of divine vengeance. Yahweh commands His people to wipe out entire nations — <i>"Show them no mercy."</i> (Deuteronomy 7:2) As we've already seen, he orders the slaughter of men, women, children, and even livestock. He prescribes the death penalty for blasphemers, adulterers, Sabbath-breakers, and rebellious sons. He floods the world, torches cities, and plagues Egypt.</p>
    
    <p>Now Jesus, supposedly the embodiment of the same God, <b>contradicts all of it</b>.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Love your enemies… that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He gives sunlight to evil and good alike."</i> (Matthew 5:44-45)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Unless you refuse to see this, it is clear Jesus is describing a <b>completely different God</b>—one who is merciful to His enemies. Yahweh destroyed His enemies. Jesus' Father <i>loves</i> them. It's a complete departure from the past!</p>
    
    <p>What did Jesus communicate in what he lived out? Let's take a closer look. When an adulterous woman is dragged before Him—guilty under Yahweh's law, deserving of death—He <b>stops the execution</b>. When Peter swings a sword to defend Him in the Garden of Gethsemane, cutting off a soldier's ear, Jesus doesn't commend him. He rebukes him. <i>"Put your sword back in its place,"</i> Jesus says, <i>"for all who draw the sword will die by the sword."</i> (Matthew 26:52) Then —stunningly— He <b>heals</b> the wounded man.</p>
    
    <p>This is a <b>complete rejection</b> of Yahweh's approach to justice. Yahweh commanded Israel to take up the sword. Jesus tells His followers to put it away. Yahweh sent armies. Jesus sent love.</p>
    
    <p>Can these really be the same God?</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Vengeance is Mine; I will repay."</i> (Deuteronomy 32:35)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>And how did Yahweh carry out that vengeance? Through mass slaughter, conquests, and destruction. Sometimes He did it Himself (flooding the world, burning Sodom), and other times He used human armies—ordering Israel to become His instrument of wrath. In the New Testament, Paul quotes that same verse, but then—<i>shockingly</i>—follows it up with a radical new command:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Do not be overcome by evil, but <b>overcome evil with good</b>."</i> (Romans 12:21)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p><b>Wait. <i>WHAT?</i></b></p>
    <p>So, vengeance belongs to God… but our response must be ....love? </p>
    <p>That only makes sense if God Himself is operating under a different system.</p>
    
    <p>And how does Jesus, whom Paul calls 'the image of the invisible God,' respond to ultimate injustice —his own crucifixion? Not by calling down vengeance. Not by sending plagues. But by <b>forgiving his killers</b>.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Father, <b>forgive them</b>, for they don't know what they're doing."</i> (Luke 23:34)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Jesus turns the other cheek—<i>even in death</i>. This is <b>not</b> Yahweh's pattern. At this point, we have to ask, using the rules of logic:</p>
    
    <ul class="list-decimal pl-6 my-4">
        <li>If Jesus <i>perfectly reveals</i> the Father…</li>
        <li>And Jesus <b>directly contradicts</b> Yahweh's violent commands…</li>
        <li>Then what do we conclude about Yahweh - the Old Testament 'God'?</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>Some try to harmonize it. They argue that Yahweh was accommodating human fallenness, slowly educating Israel, meeting them where they were, as it were. After all, Jesus seems to hint at this when explaining why Moses allowed divorce:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"Because of the hardness of your hearts, Moses permitted you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning, it was <b>not so</b>."</i> (Matthew 19:8)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Could this same principle not apply to Yahweh's violent laws? Extreme violence, murder, genocide, and sacrificing innocent animals were not God's ideal, but merely a <i>concession to human depravity</i>? He was speaking to barbarians in their language, as it were.</p>
    
    <p>Amazingly, some scholars say yes. I don't buy it. The instructions to the Israelites on what to do when entering Canaan and coming across nations already living there… those instructions were <b>not thought up by the Israelites</b>. They came <b>directly from Yahweh</b>! Offer those nations two choices, Yahweh explained: slavery or genocide. This hardly sounds like the words of someone trying to transform humanity out of violence. And then, just when we think we have Yahweh figured out, a verse emerges from out of nowhere:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"For I desire <b>mercy, not sacrifice</b>, and acknowledgment of God rather than burnt offerings."</i> — Yahweh? (Hosea 6:6) / Jesus (Matthew 9:13)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>A <b>stunning statement</b> attributed in the Hosea text to Yahweh! Some commentators say the correct translation is "never" for the word "not." It should read, "For I desire mercy, <i>never</i> sacrifice," they say. Buried deep in the Old Testament, the so-called "God of blood and fire" suddenly claims He doesn't want sacrifices after all. The very foundation of Israel's temple system—the rivers of animal blood, the endless offerings—was supposedly <b>never His real desire</b>. Yet Yahweh was the one who instituted it. Demanded it. Enjoyed it, as we saw earlier in this verse.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"The priest shall burn all of it on the altar, as a burnt offering, a <b>pleasing aroma</b> to Yahweh."</i> (Leviticus 1:9)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>A pleasing aroma? The smell of burning flesh? <b>Something doesn't add up.</b> And Jesus knew it.</p>
    
    <div class="note">
        <span class="note-title">Textual Alteration Theory:</span>
        <p>Could the text have been altered with Yahweh's name inserted over the name of the true God? The Hosea verse makes <b>no sense</b> given the mountains of evidence in our possession about Yahweh's desires and actions throughout the Old Testament texts.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>The prophet Jeremiah did warn that all is not right with our biblical texts:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p><i>"How can you say, 'We are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us?' But behold, the <b>lying pen of the scribes</b> has made it into a lie."</i> Jeremiah 8:8</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Jeremiah spells it out clearly... the texts were altered. I shall address this in Part 3. The text alterations were massive, not merely the odd verse here and there. No, this was the butchering and alteration of <b><i>volumes</i></b> of biblical text.</p>
    
    <p>Let me conclude this chapter and section with the following thought:</p>
    
    <p>I've already shown how Jesus used the statement <i>"I desire mercy, not sacrifice"</i> like a Molotov cocktail in the faces of religious leaders. <b>Twice</b>. First, when the Pharisees criticized Him for eating with sinners (Matthew 9:13). Then, when they condemned His disciples for plucking grain on the Sabbath (Matthew 12:7). Jesus doesn't just quote Hosea. He <b>dismantles</b> the entire premise of Yahweh's sacrificial system. If Jesus' Father never desired sacrifice, then… <i>who did?</i> Who set up the bloodshed? Who demanded the endless streams of slaughter? If Jesus is the full revelation of God, then Yahweh's blood-soaked demands become… <b>extremely suspicious</b>, to say the least.</p>
    
    <p><b>Was Jesus really the last lamb that was slain?</b> If so, this would seem to be validating the sacrificial system. Jesus came to <b>free us</b>. Not just from sin. Not just from legalism. But from the entire sacrificial system that <i>never should have existed</i>. And if that's true… then who—or what—was demanding blood all along?</p>

    <p>Let's move to Part 2 and address the subject of how a key protagonist was used to get Christianity to embrace horrific beliefs about our loving Father and successfully prop these beliefs up for centuries. Enter <b>Saul of Tarsus</b>.</p>
    
    <nav class="navigation" style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2em; padding: 1em; border-top: 1px solid #eee;">
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('chapter3.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">← Backward</button>
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('toc.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">Contents</button>
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('part2.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">Forward →</button>
    </nav>
    
    <script type="text/javascript">
        function navigateToChapter(href, event) {
            if (event) event.preventDefault();
            window.location.href = href;
        }
    </script>
</body>
</html> 