<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Chapter 1: The Father Jesus Knew</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h2 id="chapter1" class="chapter-title">
        <div class="chapter-number">Chapter 1</div>
        Jesus' Simple Questions Reveal A Startling Identity
    </h2>
    
    <div class="chapter-opening-quote">
        <p>"Which of you, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?"</p>
        <span class="quote-author">— Jesus (Matthew 7:9)</span>
    </div>
    
    <p>Throughout the Gospels, Jesus reveals a Father of love and goodness – a Father fundamentally unlike the deity depicted in Israel's scriptures. The evidence is undeniable and damning: Jesus' own teachings flatly oppose Yahweh's actions and commands. We will not mince words or cushion the blow. It's time to fully expose the deception – Yahweh is NOT Jesus' Father, and the proof is in Scripture itself.</p>
    
    <p>Jesus made it simple. A loving father doesn't mock his child's hunger.</p>
    
    <p>No decent father does this—not even a disturbed, evil one. A child asks for food, and a loving parent provides. Not poison. Not cruelty wrapped as "discipline."</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask Him!"</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>This is the God Jesus knows. A father who gives freely, abundantly, lovingly.</p>
    
    <div class="infographic">
        <h3 class="infographic-title">Jesus' Rhetorical Question vs. Yahweh's Actions</h3>
        <div class="flex flex-col md:flex-row gap-6">
            <div class="flex-1 bg-blue-50 p-4 rounded-lg">
                <h4 class="font-bold text-center mb-3 text-blue-700">Jesus' Question</h4>
                <div class="text-center mb-4">
                </div>
                <p class="italic">"Which of you, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?"</p>
            </div>
            <div class="flex-1 bg-red-50 p-4 rounded-lg">
                <h4 class="font-bold text-center mb-3 text-red-700">Yahweh's Actions</h4>
                <div class="text-center mb-4">
                </div>
                <p class="italic">"So <b>Yahweh sent poisonous snakes among the people.</b> They bit the people, and many of the Israelites died." (Numbers 21:6)</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
    
    <p>Now enter Yahweh. The Israelites—wandering, starving, desperate—begged for food and water. What did their so-called "father" do? Yes, he sent them manna. But it was so unsatisfying, so insufficient, they called it "worthless bread." They cried out for something real, something nourishing. They pleaded for survival.</p>
    
    <p>And how did Yahweh respond?</p>
    
    <p>He sent venomous serpents to bite them. Many died. Here is the text in Numbers 21:4-6:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"… [the Israelites] said, "Why did you make us leave Egypt—just to let us die in the desert? There's no bread or water, and we can't stand this awful food!" So Yahweh sent poisonous snakes among the people. They bit the people, and many of the Israelites died."</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>There it is, in black and white. They begged for bread. Yahweh gave them snakes.</p>
    
    <p>Jesus didn't just simply say Yahweh wasn't his Father— <b>he practically screamed it.</b> His words expose the contradiction outright. A good father doesn't do what Yahweh did. Jesus told his hearers that even the vilest, meanest, most sinful among them would do better.</p>
    
    <p>The language is somewhat coded, hence many today can't see it. It is my belief that this encoding is likely what protected the text from being erased from our bibles. It slipped past the evil editors of our current biblical text. More on this later.</p>
    
    <p>And what of the stone? Jesus said no father would hand his thirsty children a stone. Yet Yahweh's idea of providing water was to have Moses strike a rock in the desert. The people thirsted for drink; Yahweh's response was, "Go hit that stone." Only after Moses beat water out of a rock did the people drink. This was no gentle act of compassion – it was a dramatized display of power, as if Yahweh begrudged them even the water. A genuinely loving father would have simply given them water freely, not tested Moses' obedience on a stone.</p>
    
    <p>On another occasion, Moses is asked to talk to a stone for water. He made the mistake of striking it, as he did before. <i>This single act </i>disqualified him from entering the 'promised land.' It was literally one strike and you're out, Moses. This after he gave up most of his life to follow the light-being in the desert, he is rewarded with an ignominious exit from the story, a 'dishonorable discharge' as it were – a desert death, because of a single 'impulsive', spur-of-the-moment act. This should serve as a warning for millions serving Yahweh today. You are never sure where you stand with him.</p>
    
    <p>Those blinded by Yahweh will argue that Moses deserved what he got because he made the mistake of 'destroying the typology.' The rock symbolized Jesus, and 'striking' the rock symbolized crucifying Jesus. 'How dare Moses strike Jesus!' they say. His punishment is deserved, they insist. Go figure. But I digress.</p>
    
    <p>Jesus holds up the image of a tender father who eagerly gives good gifts to those who ask. Yahweh instead gives snakes and stones – punishments, hurdles, and deadly "gifts" and disqualifications.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>There is no sugar-coating this: Jesus is openly condemning the very behavior Yahweh displayed. In my mind, <b>this on its own is clear and damning proof that Yahweh cannot be the Father of Jesus.</b> If even "evil" human fathers know better than to treat their children like this, how could a supremely loving Father in heaven possibly be the one who sent fiery serpents on His people, resulting in numerous deaths?</p>
    </div>  
    
    <p>The answer is stark: <b>He isn't. </b>Jesus' Father is <b>not</b> the snake-sending desert god of Israel. Period.</p>
    
    <p>As if this were not enough, Jesus, in his famous mountain teaching, then moved on to the matter of <b>oaths.</b> In the Old Testament, Yahweh institutionalized oath-taking as a religious duty. He commanded the Israelites:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"You must fear Yahweh your Elohim, serve him, and take your oaths only in his name" (Deuteronomy 6:13).</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Swearing oaths was not optional under Yahweh's law – it was required as a way to affirm truth and bind oneself before 'God.' Yahweh's entire covenant with Israel is filled with oaths: He swears promises, and He demands His people swear loyalty in return. Taking an oath in Yahweh's name was an act of worship and obedience. In fact, one of the Ten Commandments implicitly addresses oaths, warning not to take these oaths in Yahweh's name in vain – i.e. don't swear falsely by his name. The message was clear: oaths are fine, even holy, as long as you keep them.</p>
    
    <p>Fast forward to Jesus delivering his Sermon on the Mount: He directly overturns this practice.</p>
    
    <div class="contrast-box">
        <div class="contrast-side contrast-side-1">
            <div class="contrast-title">Yahweh Commands</div>
            <p class="italic text-center mb-4">"Take your oaths only in my name."</p>
            <ul class="icon-list xmark-list text-center">
                <li class="text-center">Oaths required as religious duty</li>
                <li class="text-center">Swearing by Yahweh's name commanded</li>
                <li class="text-center">Part of worship and covenant</li>
            </ul>
        </div>
        <div class="contrast-side contrast-side-2">
            <div class="contrast-title">Jesus Commands</div>
            <p class="italic text-center mb-4">"Do not swear at all."</p>
            <ul class="icon-list check-list text-center">
                <li class="text-center">All oaths prohibited</li>
                <li class="text-center">Simple truth required (yes/no)</li>
                <li class="text-center">Oath-making called "evil"</li>
            </ul>
        </div>
    </div>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"But I say to you, do not swear at all," Jesus declares emphatically. He prohibits any oath-taking:</p>
        <p>"… neither by heaven, for it is God's throne; nor by the earth… Nor shall you swear by your head… Let your 'Yes' be yes and your 'No,' no. For whatever is more than these comes from the evil one." (Matthew 5:35-37)</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Could the contrast be any more jarring? Yahweh commanded His followers to swear by His name, but Jesus forbids His followers from swearing any oath, under any circumstance. He then labels oath-making as <b>coming "from the evil one."</b> By Jesus' teaching, every oath – no matter how pious or truthful – has more than a taint of evil. It originates from the personification of evil. <b>Jesus called Yahweh evil!</b></p>
    
    <div class="note">
        <span class="note-title">Think about the implications:</span>
        <p>If Yahweh told people to swear by Him, and Jesus says swearing is evil, then Jesus has not only condemned a core element of Yahweh's law, but he has condemned Yahweh himself!</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>This is open rebellion. Jesus is not offering a minor clarification. There is no reconciling this. Traditional Christian teaching ties itself in knots trying to explain that Jesus really meant "don't swear falsely" – but that is exactly what Yahweh already said!</p>
    
    <p>Why would Jesus do this if He thought Yahweh was His Father? It would mean the Father gave Israel a flawed command, or that the Father's own instructions were so bad they needed to be labeled "evil." The truth is simpler and far more shocking to the traditional view: <b>Jesus' Father had nothing to do with those old commands.</b> Jesus came to reveal a different God entirely, one who doesn't want His children entangled in oaths and legalistic vows. The Father of Jesus is utterly truthful and needs no oath – His children's simple yes or no suffices. Light has nothing to do with darkness; truth has nothing to do with falsehood. Jesus' prohibition of oaths is a blazing indicator that he was correcting someone else's commands – a someone who is not the true Father.</p>
    
    <div class="infographic">
        <h3 class="infographic-title">The Light vs. Darkness Divide</h3>
        <div class="flex flex-col md:flex-row gap-8">
            <div class="flex-1 bg-purple-50 p-4 rounded-lg">
                <h4 class="font-bold text-center mb-3 text-purple-800">Yahweh's Darkness</h4>
                <div class="text-center mb-4">
                </div>
                <ul class="text-sm text-purple-900">
                    <li class="mb-2">"Moses drew near unto the <b>thick darkness</b> where [Yahweh] was." (Exodus 20:21)</li>
                    <li class="mb-2">"[Yahweh] said that He would dwell in the <b>thick darkness</b>." (1 Kings 8:12)</li>
                    <li class="mb-2">"He made darkness His hiding place" (Psalm 18:11)</li>
                    <li>"Clouds and <b>thick darkness</b> surround Him" (Psalm 97:2)</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
            <div class="flex-1 bg-purple-50 p-4 rounded-lg">
                <h4 class="font-bold text-center mb-3 text-yellow-600">The Father's Light</h4>
                <div class="text-center mb-4">
                </div>
                <ul class="text-sm text-purple-900">
                    <li class="mb-2">"God is <b>light</b>, and in Him is no darkness at all." (1 John 1:5)</li>
                    <li class="mb-2">"…who lives in <b>unapproachable light</b>, whom no one has seen or can see…" (1 Timothy 6:16)</li>
                    <li class="mb-2">"The Father of <b>lights</b>, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change." (James 1:17)</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
    
    <p>The nature and dwelling of the two deities stand in polar opposition. The Hebrew scriptures portray Yahweh enveloped in darkness. When Moses met Yahweh on Sinai, the people observed from afar as</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"Moses drew near unto the <b>thick darkness</b> where [Yahweh] was."</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Yahweh cloaked Himself in a cloud of gloom. Later, at the dedication of Solomon's Temple, Solomon acknowledged this trait of Yahweh, saying:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"[Yahweh] said that He would dwell in the <b>thick darkness</b>."</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Imagine that – the Israelite God openly declares His dwelling is in darkness.</p>
    
    <p>Other passages repeat this eerie image:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"He made <b>darkness</b> His hiding place" (Psalm 18:11) and "clouds and <b>thick darkness</b> surround Him" (Psalm 97:2).</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Yahweh is consistently shrouded in dark clouds, obscurity, and fear. When His presence descended on Sinai, there were black clouds, thunder, and no comforting light – only terror. For Israel, God literally lived in the dark.</p>
    
    <p>Now hear how the New Testament describes Jesus' Father. The Apostle John announces the message of Christ this way (1 John 1:5)</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"God is light, and <b>in Him is no darkness at all.</b>"</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>No darkness at all. The Father of Jesus dwells in blinding, unapproachable light – a light so pure that no mortal can even approach or behold Him. This is stated clearly in 1 Timothy 6:16:</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>"…  who lives in <b>unapproachable light,</b> whom no one has seen or can see…"</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>In Him there is <b>zero darkness, not a shred, not a shadow</b>. This isn't a minor difference in poetic language; it's a <b>direct contradiction</b>. Yahweh surrounds Himself in thick darkness, but the true God is <i>all light</i>. Yahweh hides in dark clouds; the Father <i>radiates glorious light</i>. The two images are quite literally <b>as opposite as night and day</b>.</p>
    
    <p>Some will protest: <i>"God can manifest however He wants – darkness to Moses, light to others."</i></p>
    
    <p>But scripture <b>doesn't say that</b>. It consistently identifies Yahweh with darkness in His dwelling, whereas it consistently identifies the Father with light. The Father "lives in unapproachable light." <b>Period.</b> John drives it home: <b>in Him there is no darkness at all</b>. That leaves no room for, <i>"Well, sometimes God prefers darkness."</i> <b>No – no darkness, ever.</b></p>
    
    <p>So, when you see a being claiming divinity but dwelling in darkness, by definition it is <b>not</b> the Father of Jesus. The stark truth is that Yahweh's nature – gloom, clouds, thick darkness – marks him as a <b>fundamentally different being</b> from the Father revealed by Jesus. One is a deity of murk and fearful obscurity; the Other is a God of <i>blazing holiness and light</i>. <b>They cannot be one and the same.</b> To claim they are is to ignore the plain descriptions given in the Bible.</p>
    
    <p>Other ancient sects and teachers, apart from Marcion, also perceived that the "Most High" God whom Jesus called Father could not be the same being as the raging tribal deity of Israel. Many Gnostic Christians taught that Yahweh was actually a deranged lesser god – a Demiurge – who arrogantly thought himself supreme (see https://gnosticismexplained.org.) The Gnostic scriptures portray Yahweh (often called Yaldabaoth or Samael in their texts) as ignorant, malicious, and utterly inferior to the true God. In their understanding, the true Father is an unseen God of pure light and love, and Christ was sent by this true God to save us from the Demiurge's evil world. Though their mythos differs from Marcion's, the core realization is the same: <b>Yahweh is not the ultimate God of goodness. </b>    He's an imposter at best and Christ came to reveal the higher Father above him.</p>
    
    <div class="note">
        <span class="note-title">Historical Note:</span>
        <p>Marcion of Sinope (85-160 CE) was one of the first to propose that the God of the Old Testament was a different, inferior deity than the loving Father revealed by Jesus. He compiled his own canon of scripture that excluded the Old Testament and included only portions of Luke and ten of Paul's letters. The mainstream church declared him a heretic, but his questions about the compatibility of Yahweh with Jesus' Father remain relevant.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>What was the response of the mainstream Church to these ideas? <b>Denial and suppression.</b> The early Catholic fathers went to war (intellectually and sometimes literally) against Marcionites and Gnostics. They eventually declared any suggestion that Yahweh and the Father are different to be <i>anathema</i>. They <b>stitched the two together in doctrine – by force</b>. They insisted that all scripture must be speaking of one single God, and they came up with elaborate theological contortions to harmonize the glaring disparities. This mindset has come down through the centuries into modern Christianity, which by and large ignores or <i>"explains away"</i> the contradictions. Pastors and apologists use some entertaining tap-dancing:</p>

    <p><i>"You're misunderstanding, God's justice in the Old Testament is love!"</i> or</p>

    <p><i>"Those serpents were actually for the people's good, to teach them repentance."</i></p>

    <p>Such rationalizations <b>ring hollow</b>. Excuses and euphemisms avoid the uncomfortable reality staring us in the face. Traditional Christianity has, in effect, <b>buried its head in the sand</b> – it proclaims <i>"God doesn't change; He's the same yesterday, today and forever,"</i> while quietly avoiding the verses that appear to prove otherwise (assuming the same being is being referred to). The ancient voices have been dismissed as heresy so that believers won't dare consider they might have been telling the truth.</p>

    <p>But the truth remains, <b>undefeated by centuries of denial</b>. Scripture itself bears witness to the divide. You can banish Marcion; you can burn Gnostic texts – but <b>you cannot erase all of Jesus' words</b> in the Gospels (especially the ones missed because they were coded in a simple teaching about children and bread.) Yahweh's deeds in the Torah are <i>damning</i>. The contradiction is right there in the Holy Bible, for anyone to see. And now that it's been laid bare, it <b>demands a response</b>. Will we continue to accept the party line that somehow a Father of infinite love is the same being as a <i>volatile desert god who delights in oaths, darkness, and deadly vengeance</i>? Or will we finally open our eyes, as those early truth-tellers did, and <b>acknowledge the inescapable?</b></p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>It could not be any clearer that <b>Yahweh is NOT Jesus' Father</b>. The evidence is <i>overwhelming and incontrovertible</i>. It means that much of what people have been taught – that the Old and New Testament gods <i>seamlessly unite</i> – is a <b>fable</b>. It means that a <b>monumental deception</b> has been perpetrated: the character of a 'lesser being' has been <i>falsely attributed</i> to the Father of Jesus, <b>warping the image of the true God</b>.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p><b>No soft language can mask it.</b> We will not play the game of <i>"well, God's ways are higher, we just don't understand."</i> Jesus has made it understandable: <i>"If you've seen Me, you've seen the Father,"</i> he said. Do we see Jesus sending snakes to bite sinners? Do we ever see Jesus clad in darkness or demanding oaths? <b>Absolutely not.</b> We see Jesus <i>healing, forgiving, bringing truth, light, and grace</i>.</p>

    <p><b>The curtain is torn.</b> As we shall see in the next chapters, the traditional merger of Yahweh and the Father <i>collapses under the weight of scripture and reason</i>. This is the undeniable, inescapable truth: The God of Jesus is a God of light and love who has been <b>falsely equated</b> with Yahweh, a god of darkness and brutality. It's the <b>biggest identity fraud in history</b> – and it's finally laid bare. <b>No more ambiguity. No more feeble harmonizing of the irreconcilable.</b> Yahweh is not the Father. There's a reason I'm repeating myself. This truth may be shocking, even frightening, to those raised on Church tradition. But it is also <b>liberating</b>. It means we can at last know God as He truly is – <i>unmasked from the veneer of Yahweh's persona</i>. We can reject the lies that have painted our Heavenly Father with the colors of cruelty, and instead <i>bask in the pure light of His love</i>. The deception is exposed; the contrast is clear as day. The Father of Jesus Christ is <b>goodness and light itself</b>, and He never was the malicious figure men called Yahweh. This truth stands, <b>bold and unflinching</b>, and nothing in heaven or earth can ever make it go away.</p>
    
    <nav class="navigation" style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2em; padding: 1em; border-top: 1px solid #eee;">
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('part1.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">← Backward</button>
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('toc.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">Contents</button>
        <button onclick="navigateToChapter('chapter2.xhtml', event)" style="margin: 0 0.5em; padding: 0.5em 1em; background: #007acc; color: white; border: none; border-radius: 4px; cursor: pointer;">Forward →</button>
    </nav>
    
    <script type="text/javascript">
        function navigateToChapter(href, event) {
            if (event) event.preventDefault();
            window.location.href = href;
        }
    </script>
</body>
</html> 