<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h2 id="intro" class="chapter-title">Introduction: READ THIS FIRST!</h2>
    
    <p>Congratulations for letting curiosity lead you here. Let's be blunt: This book is not for the faint of faith. The title isn't clickbait, but it is a warning. What follows will upend centuries of dogma, generations of sermons, and the mental frameworks you've inherited if you've set foot in a Christian church. This book will unsettle you. It will challenge ideas you may hold sacred. For those who love their faith, that's terrifying. Beliefs shape identity. To question them feels like losing part of ourselves.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p class="text-xl font-bold">But truth demands courage.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p><b>Part 1 asks a simple question:</b> <i>Would a loving father give snakes and a stone to children begging for bread?</i> <b>Jesus said no.</b> Yet the god of Moses sent venomous snakes and a rock to starving, thirsty Israelites. He also plagued Egypt, killed firstborn sons, and ordered genocide. Repeatedly. Women, children, nursing infants and livestock included. How could this be Jesus' Father? The answer reshapes everything.</p>

    <p style="text-align: left;">Ancient voices like Marcion saw this divide. Scripture shows it plainly:</p>
    
    <p style="text-align: left;">Yahweh instituted <b>oaths</b>; Jesus called the inventor of oath-making <b>evil.</b></p>
    
    <p style="text-align: left;">Yahweh met Moses <b>face-to-face</b>; Jesus said <b>no-one</b> had seen his Father.</p>
    
    <p style="text-align: left;">Yahweh dwelt in <b>dark, billowing clouds</b> on Mount Sinai; the true God lives in <b>unapproachable light.</b></p>
    
    <p style="text-align: left;">Even Abraham was told to murder his son. Ezekiel claims <b>Yahweh commanded human sacrifice</b> to "horrify" the Israelites. And we never noticed even though it's right there in our bibles in the Law Yahweh gave. Hiding in plain sight! The Abraham story in itself should have horrified us. But our minds and consciences had already been tampered with by then.</p>
    
    <p style="text-align: left;">This isn't a minor puzzle. It's a rupture in the story we've been told.</p>
    
    <div class="infographic">
        <h3 class="infographic-title">The Three-Part Journey</h3>
        <div class="three-part-journey">
            <div class="journey-box">
                <h3 class="journey-title">Part 1: Yahweh vs. Jesus' Father</h3>
                <p class="journey-description">Exposing the stark differences between the God of the Old Testament and the Father Jesus described.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="journey-box">
                <h3 class="journey-title">Part 2: Jesus vs. Paul</h3>
                <p class="journey-description">How Paul's teachings often contradicted Jesus' message and reframed his death as a sacrifice.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="journey-box">
                <h3 class="journey-title">Part 3: Bible Texts Altered</h3>
                <p class="journey-description">Evidence that biblical texts were manipulated to maintain the sacrificial system Jesus rejected.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
    
    <p><b>Part 2 confronts Paul. </b>Jesus warned of "false" prophets, apostles and teachers. Paul checked the boxes on those warnings. Paul's teachings and character clashed with the words of the physical Jesus. Paul said it is okay to curse those with differently-held beliefs. Paul said it is okay to be deceptive. Paul almost never quoted the physical Jesus, only the light-being, spirit Jesus he encountered on the Damascus Road. He plainly stated that he had no regard for the physical, flesh-and-bone Jesus. He re-framed Jesus' death as a blood sacrifice, mirroring the Old Testament horror rituals Jesus rejected.</p>        
    <p>Letters attributed to Paul, along with altered and wrongly-interpreted Bible texts, preserved Yahweh's violent laws—including the sacrifices that repulsed the true God. The result: A story where a loving father murders his son and is worshipped for it. Jesus' message and mission wasn't to be a sacrificial pawn in a game of legal chess between God and Satan. The Father forgives freely, like Jesus. Even when we don't ask him to, when we "know not what we do," like the crucifiers. No blood required.</p>
    
    <p><b>Part 3 reveals a hidden truth: The biblical texts were altered. </b>Jeremiah 8:8 says scribes falsified God's words. Paul's writings, together with the altered texts, cleverly shift the focus away from <b>obedience to</b> Jesus' teachings to belief in concepts <b>about</b> Jesus. This is a massive difference. One gets you into the Kingdom of God, the other leaves you outside despite an impressive Christian résumé which may boast signs-and-wonders, miracles, leading mega-churches, even whole-hearted belief and a 'Jesus is my Lord and Savior' confession.</p>
    
    <p>The Law Jesus followed wasn't exactly the Pentateuch we know—a fact revealed in a 19th-century discovery, almost 80 years before the arrival of the Dead Sea Scrolls. Jesus went out of his way to <i><b>shatter</b></i> Yahweh's Law, not fulfill it. He moved to the beat of a different Law, one that will never pass away.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p>This book is for those who struggle to make sense of glaring Bible contradictions; but also, for those whose consciences have been hardened by harsh teachings and harsher attitudes soaked in Pauline psychology. The former know who they are; the latter probably don't, for now.</p>
        <p>It's not about tearing down faith. It's about clearing rubble to find what's real: a Father who loves without conditions. No wrath. No worship of evil in the name of justice.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>The outcome? A soft heart free from guilt, radiating fearless love. Non-selective love. A heart that sees Jesus' teachings—and humanity—in a light that heals and empowers. Truth may hurt at first. But it sets you free. It has done so for centuries, for humanity and the planet.</p>
    
    <p>These ideas aren't new, but they've been buried under layers of orthodoxy. Once you see them, you can't unsee them. Your brain will spin inside your skull in an attempt to resist. Your heart will urge you to read on. Your brain is already twisting my words to fit what you already know.</p>
    
    <p>Awareness of this reflex, of this subconscious battle, might dial down the static—but don't count on it. If it helps, my three teenagers grasped these concepts in under thirty minutes. We disagree on plenty, but truth cuts through noise when you let it.</p>
    
    <p>The approach I've taken in this book is straightforward: Jesus' words (his authentic words as best we can deduce) reign supreme. They override every other voice—even the "divine" ones stamped with biblical approval. His teachings are the plumbline, the control group in this experiment. But here's the catch:</p>
    
    <p>First, Jesus clashes with the Bible's most revered figures. Moses. Paul. Even the God of the Old Testament. These contradictions aren't quirks—they're seismic fractures in the story you've been told.</p>
    
    <p>Second, Jesus sometimes appears to contradict himself. To untangle this, think like a forensic detective: Is it possible some of his "red-letter" sayings are edits, outright forgeries? I'll try to freeze the frame and dust for fingerprints to get to the evidence.</p>
    
    <p>I grew up in the church, kneeling at the altar of Biblical Inerrancy. My dad was a respected and influential bible teacher. Every jot and tittle of the scriptures was sacred… the Bible contained no errors. Until I watched supercomputers dissect ancient texts in seconds. Errors aren't theoretical—they're cataloged, quantified, and undeniable. (See Appendix 1 for a cut-down, quick-fire list of 20.) Yet this doesn't negate the Creator. If anything, it sharpens the signal beneath the noise.</p>
    
    <div class="note">
        <span class="note-title">A disclaimer:</span>
        <p>I'm not here to convert you, but to show how Jesus revealed the Father as best I can. My own views have shifted and continue to adjust as I dig deeper into Jesus' radical love. This book is a snapshot of my beliefs—a marker for friends and family, and maybe for you. Judge the evidence yourself. Correct me where I'm wrong.</p>
        <p>I've earned no theology degrees (despite years of study which far exceed the hours required for these.) Just scars from decades in medicine, pharma and church life, dissecting human bodies and human beliefs. I wore the "born-again, Spirit-filled, Bible-believing" badge proudly—until Jesus' unfiltered words turned my blood to ice.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>Echo chambers amplify what we already know. Churches. Home groups. Social media. Even YouTube's algorithm. We're spoon-fed confirmations, not challenges. But truth? It arrives like a wrecking ball. It shattered my identity. It'll shatter yours too, if you let it. This is painful, but, as the passing of time reveals, is not a bad thing.</p>
    
    <div class="callout">
        <p class="font-bold">Final warning:</p>
        <p>Pray for truth, and you will get it—raw, unvarnished, and usually nothing like you imagined. Clinging to comfortable lies is easier. But if you crave the thrill of seeing, take the red pill. Turn the page.</p>
    </div>
</body>
</html> 